[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Meat production worldwide
is set to almost double by 2050
as nations become wealthier
and demand more animal protein.
>> To maintain our present level
of consumption at this present
time, beyond 2050, we would need
an additional half a planet.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> As I become a father
for the first time,
there are more and more
revelations about the way we
are raising the
animals that feed us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A major new study from the
World Health Organization has
revealed that eating processed
meat can cause cancer.
>> Meat consumption isn't just
the source of health problems.
It could also lead to
widespread species extinction
according to a recently
published study.
>> Feeding my son his
first mouthfuls and seeing
the animals around him through
his eyes has led me to look
at this information
in a new way.
It has caused me to
consider the choices that we
make to feed ourselves more
closely as if suddenly,
for him, I could no
longer remain indifferent
and had to find out more.
>> What's happened is
we've "rationalized"
and made efficient the
production of meat,
and we've industrialized it
as we've industrialized almost
every other form of
production on earth.
And the efficiency allows us
to produce more meat than ever
before, by far.
Before World War
II, let's say, there
was none of what
we're talking about,
many people raising two pigs,
six pigs, 10 pigs, 20 pigs,
200 pigs.
No one was raising 10,000 pigs.
All pigs were pastured pigs.
Chickens, same kinds of thing.
They may have been
raised by the hundreds.
Now they're raised by the
hundreds of thousands.
So the scale has gone
from a human scale
that's comprehensible to a scale
that's really incomprehensible.
It's always "follow the money,"
and this is a profitable way
to do things.
I'm going to qualify
this statement,
but this is the cheapest way
to produce millions and even
billions of animals
for human consumption.
The problem is that the
system has an expiration date.
>> Is it still possible to feed
animals to our children while
respecting the planet,
the animals' welfare,
and our health?
I'm not an animal
rights activist.
I'm a journalist.
The best way to
answer this question
is to go out into the field.
Traveling all over
the world, I'm
going to meet with
men and women who
are inventing innovative
ways of raising animals
that respect man,
nature, and animals.
I want to put these
initiatives together
to find out if another
way of consumption
is possible and viable
and if there is still time
left to do things differently.
>> We created-- we created
industrial agriculture.
It was intentional.
There was a decision made
to say, how can we produce
the most grain possible?
How can we produce the
most animals possible?
There were other directions
we could have gone in.
We could have said, how can
we make the healthiest diet
for our people possible?
How can we make sure that our
land is poisoned as little as
possible?
How can we exhibit
humaneness towards animals
as much as possible?
We chose to ignore those
issues in favor of yield.
Now it's time to move in
a different direction.
>> I heard about a man in the
plains of the American Midwest
who decided to challenge the
dominant industrial model.
He has developed a new
method of livestock farming
that is closer to nature
to prove that doing things
differently is still possible.
>> I'm Jude Becker, and my farm
has been operated by me since I
returned from the
University in 1999.
And the farm is
certified organic.
I began this system
with only six sows,
and today we have 150.
And we are producing more
than 2,000 pigs per year.
My farm could be considered
the opposite system
from the industrial philosophy.
Our philosophy is based on
allowing the pigs to express
their natural instincts because
this promotes animal welfare,
and I think it promotes
health of the animals.
>> Jude Becker's system is
set up so that pigs live
in the open air all year around,
whatever the temperature.
>> Here is something
we call a mud wallow.
It's one of the natural
instincts for a sow to remain
cool because she cannot sweat.
And so in summertime, if
the weather is very hot,
it's so important for
the sow to come here
occasionally during the
most hot time in the day.
If we are very quiet,
I will show you
a litter of piglets which
was born during the night.
You can see there
are about 12 pigs.
Well, this house is insulated.
And there is around 10
centimeters of insulation,
so the wall is quite thick.
And it's made of steel,
so it's very strong.
And in winter, it keeps
the sow quite warm.
And also it keeps the
heat out in summer
because we open the back
window and keep ventilation.
It's a more natural system.
The pig can grow
in its natural way
by living outside and
experiencing the earth.
Because a pig has this special
nose to dig in the earth,
and if it cannot have this,
then it's not complete.
It's not completely a pig.
Something is missing.
>> This kind of farming
resembles the images that we
see in adverts.
However, over 80%
of pig meat doesn't
come from farms
like Jude Becker's
but from industrial
farms like this one.
Here, everything happens
inside the buildings.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> 95% percent of pork produced
in France comes from farms like
this one.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> So here you don't
use gestation cages?
>> No, we don't need any
kind of a crate or cage.
It's not necessary
in this system.
In the outdoor
system, we are relying
on the instincts, the
motherly instincts of the sow
to raise her piglets.
And so we don't spend too
many hours here every day.
>> Come on.
>> Wow, there's one.
You can see one is--
>> Oh, yeah.
Do you know why?
>> It looks like she just
laid down on top of that pig.
Practitioners of the
indoor industrial system
say that we have
more piglets which
are crushed by their
mother, so this
is something we got recently.
That house is bigger.
It looks the same
as the other house,
but the one difference is,
this house is a bit larger.
And just to make the
house a bit larger
could be the solution to
the problem of crushing.
And if that's true, it
could be a big success.
>> This natural farming
method proves that solving one
of the other great scandals
of industrial farming,
the extensive use of
antibiotics, is also possible.
>> Because of the crowding
that these animals experience
because of the ways
that they're raised,
disease is a big problem.
So it developed that
antibiotics began
to be given to animals
routinely, prophylactically,
to prevent disease.
And also, incidentally,
there was some evidence,
there is some evidence,
that by giving antibiotics
to young animals,
you're making them
grow more quickly and
bigger because healthier
animals grow more
quickly and bigger.
So what's the problem with this?
Because bacteria are
smart, able to adapt,
they're breeding resistance
to these antibiotics.
As they do that in
the animal population,
they transfer that
resistance to bacteria that
affect the human population.
And as a result of that, we
are seeing increased number
of infections,
people in hospitals
and out of hospitals for
whom antibiotics don't work.
The number of people who die
from antibiotic-resistant
bacterial infections in the
United States is about 25,000
a year and rising.
The number of people
who get sick and have
trouble getting better is in
the hundreds of thousands.
That's an issue that's
not going to go away.
>> In France, antibiotic
resistance kills 13,000 people
a year.
According to a British study, if
nothing changes, in 2050, this
could be the number one
cause of death in the world,
causing 10 million
deaths each year.
>> On my farm, we are not
allowed to use antibiotics.
And I believe this
is the right decision
for organic farms in the US.
It's one point of
differentiation
between the European
Union and the US
is we're not allowed to use
them unless the animal requires
medicine to prevent
death or suffering.
And if we use that antibiotic,
we need to separate,
we need to segregate that
treated animal from the rest
and sell it to the
conventional system.
>> Jude's meat costs three times
more than industrially farmed
meat.
But seeing his pigs running
freely in the fields,
it seems clear that
this is the price
to pay for not cutting
the costs at any price.
>> For me, this kind of
work is very interesting.
To be in charge of
a natural system
and be responsible for the
care of these creatures.
It produces a kind of joy.
Just to walk amongst
the pigs in the field,
it's a kind of therapy to
simply watch them run and play.
And as a farmer,
that's very fulfilling.
They're not just a kind of
product to maximize efficiency,
like a factory.
They are living,
sentient creatures.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Farming that takes into
account the animals' well-being
and frees them from their
cages is indeed possible,
but is it economically
viable on a larger scale?
Industrial production has
radically reduced food prices.
In the 1950s,
European households
spent an average of 45%
of their budget on food.
Today, it's just around 15%.
The pursuit of economic
efficiency at any cost,
which has benefited us all,
has been pushed to its limits
by one type of
farming in particular.
>> By any industrial
standard of productivity,
the chicken industry is a model
of how to do things efficiently
and cheaply.
There is nearly complete
genetic uniformity.
These animals have been bred to
grow and fatten very quickly.
And so they are kept in
complete confinement.
Chicken production today is
that these birds have been bred
to mature in five to six weeks.
It's remarkable how
short their lifespan is.
>> What is the normal life
expectancy for a chicken?
>> If you took a wild jungle
fowl and looked at its normal
life expectancy, which is where
these chickens ultimately come
from, 20 years.
>> Today, chickens are bred
twice as fast as they were 40
years ago, but they
are twice as big.
>> But the bottom line is that
these birds really can't move
around that much.
If you took these birds
and put them outside,
which some people have done,
they develop leg injuries,
they develop foot injuries.
After a couple of
weeks, their chests
have grown so large
that they tip forward.
They actually are permanently
unable to walk properly
because they have been bred to
grow breast meat so quickly.
>> So now we go down here and
then down there just in case
that a car comes.
We would go in the-- just
follow us so maybe you
have to lay down on the ground.
You have to watch
out for the camera.
But I don't think that
something will come.
>> OK.
>> Industrial chicken farms
no longer allow cameras
in, so the only way to film
them is at night, covertly.
I go along with Christian
Adam and two of his friends,
German activists who are
against industrial farming.
>> The farm is about 200
meters away in front of us.
It's a chicken farm for
about 120,000 chickens,
so they have three halls
of 40,000 chickens.
>> That's huge numbers.
>> Actually, it's a normal farm.
The chickens are always
hungry because of the breeding
and the way that they--
they are always hungry
that they eat and eat and eat so
they can grow very, very fast,
but that means lots of
problems for the animals.
And this is something that
happens in every farm.
Now you can smell it.
>> Yeah.
>> Exactly when you go
in, just move very slowly.
>> OK.
>> These chickens were
born only 20 days ago,
but they only have 10 days
left before they are killed
and arrive on our plates.
The smell of bird
droppings is hard to bear.
It is humid and hot.
>> This is what the industry
never wants to talk about.
From this point, I already
see 10 dead animals
that are lying about
the living ones,
and actually that
is pretty much.
But if you think about,
normally, in a farm like this,
you have a mortality
rate of about 8%.
And that means that in a
farm like this, over the time
they are raised, 4,000 animals
die, not in slaughterhouses
but because of the
conditions here.
When we look at
the ground, that's
all old shit from the animals.
Some are thirsty.
They can't even
get to the water.
So when they can't stand
up, they will die of thirst.
These are the chickens we
eat at every normal store
in the gastronomy.
This is how I think at least
95% of chicken in Germany
is raised.
And these are the
chickens we eat.
We are here at midnight,
around midnight,
and the whole hall
is full of light.
The animals eat all the time
because everything is here
to make them grow
as fast as they can.
And this is one part of it.
They should not sleep
because they should eat,
and that's why the halls are
lit up all the night long.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The race for economic
efficiency has also been
particularly damaging for
the well-being of animals
in the egg production industry.
The majority of the eggs we
eat come from battery farms
like this one.
These animals will
never see daylight
until they leave
for the abattoir.
There are 13 chickens
per square meter.
Everything is done to minimize
the cost of production.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Worldwide, 60% of
egg-laying hens live in cages.
It's 68% in France.
Seeing this with my own eyes,
I realize that it really
is time to consume
differently and avoid
eating products from industrial
farming as much as possible.
But are the alternative
methods realistic?
Can animal welfare be
respected without causing
an excessive increase
in production costs?
In the United States, there
is an innovative method
for farming egg-laying
hens on a large scale
while respecting
their well-being.
I have a meeting
with the Brunnquells.
They have created
Egg Innovation, one
of the biggest initiatives for
free-range hens in the world.
Every day, one million eggs
are packaged in their factory.
3,000 per second.
They have a turnover of more
than 50 million euros per year.
>> I grew up on a caged farm.
Then, probably 20
years ago, I stepped
into my first cage-free barn.
And it kind of destroyed
some of my stereotypes.
And then we took that a step
further every couple of years
and said, OK, let's
let the doors open.
When we saw the improvement
of the bird's health,
their welfare, it was just hard
to say that this was incorrect.
There's nothing
in a cage that is
going to lean into the birds'
natural behaviors of perching,
foraging, dust
bathing, socialization.
Cages simply aren't
going to provide that.
It's impossible.
It's impossible for
them to provide that.
>> John Brunnquell freed the
hens from their cages and gave
them access to the open air.
But he hasn't given
up mass production.
He owns 1,300,000 hens
spread over 65 buildings,
like this one,
throughout the country.
>> You said that inside, John,
there was like 20,000 chickens.
>> Yes.
>> And is this a
normal size for you?
>> Yes.
This barn is 24,000 square feet.
Everything is measured.
So there's 1.2 square
feet per bird inside.
There's 22 square
feet of pasture.
There's six inches
of perch space.
>> Can they be really happy
because there are so much
in the same place?
>> So a really good
indication of happiness is,
if you walked into a cage barn,
you would see a lot of anxiety.
Even in a cage-free barn,
they would typically run away.
The fact that I can walk
up to the birds and they
stay and they're curious, and
the fact that I can do that,
that is a sign of happiness.
That tells you
how calm they are.
They're not afraid of people
because they've been allowed
to engage in natural behavior.
So they have the
room to move around.
This is a choice they're making.
If they want to,
they can go outside.
Nothing's stopping them.
>> OK, she's not running away.
Hey, you.
>> Birds don't
like to be petted.
They like to be stroked
underneath their chin.
The center of the building
is a row of nests.
That nest is like a big box.
After the bird lays the egg,
it's on a little bit of a roll,
and that will roll
onto a big egg
belt underneath that will go
to the front of the building.
So you look at all the
girls that are following us.
It's like they're
going to a gym.
So if they get a chance
to work out every day,
not only are their
muscles stronger,
it builds up their
immune system,
circulatory system, their lung
and oxygenation.
And we're doing that by
allowing them to have activity.
When you confine
the animal, it's
no different than if you sit
on the sofa and watch TV.
What we've found is, every
time we improve welfare,
I found my production went
up, my mortality went down.
Good things happened
with the birds.
And we did it initially
because it was a belief,
but the belief was proven to
be accurate by the productivity
of the animal.
So we can blend, scale, and
size with animal welfare.
>> John Brunnquell has succeeded
in improving the well-being
of his chickens while providing
eggs for the breakfasts
of 5,000 Americans every day.
But he has two problems
left to resolve.
The end of his hens' lives who,
after a year and a half when
they no longer lay enough eggs,
will be slaughtered and go
into the food chain.
And the beginning
of their lives.
>> Where do they come
from, the chicks?
>> We will buy day-old
chicks from the hatchery,
and then that's when we will
start taking over and managing
the bird.
>> This is actually a kind of
link in the supply chain that
is rarely talked about.
Hatcheries, of
course, you don't know
whether you're getting a male
or a female upon hatching.
They employ very highly
skilled individuals
called chicken sexers.
It's very hard to tell.
It's very hard to
pick up a chick
and tell if it's a
male or a female.
And what these chicken sexers
do, of course, if it's a hen,
they will put it
in the keep box.
And if it's a male,
usually these males
are thrown into a grinder
or into a bag where
they suffocate.
Or in some cases,
they will just gas
a bunch of the male chickens.
A hatchery might produce,
in a day, 50,000 chickens.
Half of them, so yeah, 10,000,
20,000 a day are being killed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Not everything is perfect.
But when I see John
Brunnquell's chickens,
I think it is still
possible to change
the system from the inside.
Will many of them
be able to succeed?
There are already those who are
resisting industrialization,
happy to live well without
trying to get rich.
These are cow, pigs, and chicken
breeders, but also fisherman.
In the fishing industry,
industrialization has also
had a considerable impact.
The nets or trawlers
that scrape the seabed
to collect the fish that
ends up on our plates
kill animals which
are then immediately
thrown back into the sea.
At least 10 million
tons of marine animals
are killed each year as bycatch,
including turtles, dolphins,
and whales.
Imagine if the
label of a product
showed how many
animals were killed
so that you could eat it.
For example, for 500 grams
of prawns from Indonesia,
12 kilograms of other
marine animals were killed.
In order to eat tuna
sushi, you should
know that 145 other species
regularly die in the nets.
The situation is no
better in fish farms.
Because of overcrowding and
the poor quality of the water,
the mortality rates of
the fish can reach 30%.
But above all, to
feed the farmed fish,
we have to fish even more.
It takes 2 to 5 kilograms
of wild fish processed
into bone meal to feed 1
kilogram of farmed fish.
But here too, men and
women are refusing
to give in to the
call of expansion.
For many years, every
morning, if possible,
a 9-meter-long boat
goes out to sea.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Anne Marie Verchez fishes
for hake with a longline,
a fishing method that uses long
lines with bait, like sardines.
This is more
respectful of the fish
and preserves biodiversity.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Over the last 20 years, our
consumption of fish has more
than doubled.
Anne Marie's fishing
method might not
be able to feed the
planet, but at our level,
opting for fish from
sustainable fishing like hers,
even if they are a
bit more expensive,
is the first step in
the right direction.
They may not be perfect yet.
But whether it's on a small
scale or a large scale,
methods that respect
animals already exist.
But respecting animals
is not the only thing
we should take into account
when feeding our children.
We should also ask,
what kind of planet
do we want to leave them?
With 7 and 1/2 billion
people on earth,
meat and fish
consumption is excessive
and has become a
serious problem.
To produce the animals
that we eat today,
we are damaging the world
they will grow up in tomorrow.
>> I mean, the numbers
are pretty clear,
if you want to just begin
with greenhouse gas emissions.
Industrial animal agriculture
is responsible for at least 18%
of all greenhouse gas emissions.
And that's a kind
of remarkable chunk
of responsibility for just one
industry in the global economy.
It's safe to say
that if we didn't
have industrial and
animal agriculture,
and that's a big if,
but if we didn't, we
would not have the major
concerns with global warming
and greenhouse gas emissions
that we have today.
It's actually more productive
with greenhouse gases
overall than the entire global
transportation industry, just
to kind of put that
in perspective.
>> To face the rising
consumption of meat,
we have chosen to produce
more animals more intensively.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> To fatten up the billions of
animals as quickly as possible
and to increase their yield, we
grow more and more genetically
modified grain.
To plant them, we
destroy forests,
which increases global warming
and destroys biodiversity.
The quantity of water
required for these crops,
like corn or soy,
exhausts the groundwater.
And the huge quantities
of pesticides and chemical
fertilizers that we
apply destroy the soil
and endangers our health.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Are you OK with the smell?
>> Well, when you are here
after two or three days--
>> You get used to it.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you eat this meat?
>> I no like it.
>> You don't like it?
>> Mm-mm.
>> Why?
>> Well, I don't like to
see how we feed the cows.
All the chemicals to feed.
>> Oh, too much chemicals?
>> Yeah.
Every day they lie about
10 hours every day.
>> Really?
>> Yeah, sometimes more.
>> There is another
consequence of this massive
industrialization.
To distribute the grain
all around the world,
they are loaded onto huge
petrol-guzzling ships
that cross the oceans, further
impacting global warming.
>> It is safe to say
that industrial or animal
agriculture represents perhaps
the worst misallocation
of natural resources
in human history.
If we feed the world the way
we're feeding the world now,
we're going to run
out of resources,
and it's going to lead
to political instability.
It's going to lead
to a situation
where the world's poorest suffer
the consequences the most.
It's going to lead to perhaps
wars over land and access
to land and access to water.
I mean, things could
become very severe,
so we need to start thinking
about using our land in ways
that produce the most
calories with the least
environmental impact and the
least amount of resources.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(SINGING) You traveled
the world without me.
Can't stay in one place only.
That time is ours.
>> A new generation of farmers
have decided not to follow this
dominant system and try to
reinvent farming methods
to feed the world differently.
In the United States,
Portugal, France,
they're concerned with
respecting animals but also
preserving the environment
and our health.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
The animals are not
here to feed us.
The animals and the
other beings are here
because the planet
need their functions,
and that's the big change.
Using their energy.
It's also a function
of each being.
They are here to be part of
this wonderful, very intelligent
system where we also belong.
(SINGING) And please,
please, please,
next time you fly,
take me by your side.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Jacques Abbatucci's
cows don't have stables,
and they stay on his 500
hectares of pastures all year
round.
They eat what cows were
naturally born to eat.
Every day he brings
them grass, fresh when
he can and dried in winter.
His system is designed to be
fully self-sufficient so it has
minimal environmental impact.
He grows the grass himself
next to the pastures.
And to supplement the
food for his calves,
he grows his own grain.
A few hectares of
barley a year suffice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This system is very far
from intensive agriculture,
but he is not concerned
with a profit margin,
just with satisfying the demand.
His meat is a bit
more expensive,
but his farming method
makes it a product
that is very desirable
for restaurant owners.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Jacques Abbatucci has
proven that farming animals
sustainably is possible.
But there is another method
that goes even further.
Agroforestry.
This allows farming that usually
contributes to global warming
to become a weapon against it.
Agroforestry has existed in
certain regions of Portugal
for centuries.
It involves combining
several species
of animals, vegetable farming,
and trees on the same plots.
One hour outside
of Lisbon, a farmer
has brought this
system up to date
by putting agronomic knowledge
and modern technology together.
>> We go inside.
We go inside close
to the cows, OK?
>> OK.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Agroforestry, it's the way
to cooperate with nature,
understanding nature,
and getting deep
on the knowledge of nature.
The industry elected
to dominating nature.
That's completely
opposite stories.
>> The results of dozens of
years of industrial agriculture
are plain to see.
On one side are the wooded
pastures of Alfredo Cuhnal.
On the other is a
desert, the result
of decades of intensive
serial farming.
>> Now, it's not a soil.
It's a subsoil.
It's dead.
And without soil, you
can produce but not
with a natural fertility cycle.
You have to bring
it from outside.
If you think that chemical
fertility survived on fuel,
on petrol, whenever you
don't have access to petrol,
what will we do?
So it's, of course,
needed to re-establish
another ways to grow food.
And that's, for us, the
unique way that we know now,
it's based on the natural
cycles of fertility.
Here, I have future.
I am growing my soil.
I am managing my ecosystem.
I am getting the ecosystem
more reach every day.
So I don't need a
liter of oil here.
It's completely autonomous.
>> In Alfredo's farming, every
living animal or plant has
a role, and at the center
of it all are the trees.
>> They are a source of fiber,
it means a source of food.
Whenever you don't have fiber
in this first step on the floor,
they can feed directly
from the trees,
or we can cut and bring
this fiber to the soil.
But they create shadow, what
is very important on the summer
for the animals.
If you look carefully,
you will see
that behind a tree, the pasture,
it's a different quality.
Much more quantity and
a different quality
because there is more organic
matter provided by the tree.
At the same time,
the cows are also
helping the tree with
their manure directly.
These beings are not here
only to produce meat.
If we only have trees
or if we only have cows,
all the system will be weaker
and directly less resilient.
>> The acorns from the oak trees
alone provide 60% of the food
for Alfredo's pigs, and the
benefits for the environment
are considerable.
>> If you imagine, in
terms of energy efficiency,
you imagine the efficiency
of having the tree producing
and pumping food during 300,
400 years, completely adapted,
no fertilizer, no machinery.
And now think, the other
system to feed pigs
that it's based on cereals.
Every year you have
to move the soil.
Every year you have to
use a lot of fossil fuels
to produce cereals
to feed the pigs.
The energetic efficiency,
is completely different.
Here, just wait and eat.
Industrial agriculture
releases a lot of carbon.
Here it's the opposite.
With this system and with this
structure of agroforestry,
we trap a lot of carbon.
More than one ton
per hectare per year.
If we go in this
direction, and if we
go in the direction
of agroforestry,
we can have a big part of
the solution of the emissions
that we've done, very quick.
That's the great
part of the story.
It's not a problem
that we do mistakes.
The problem is that we are
not conscience about that
and we don't correct it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Alfredo's farm will soon be
home to new trees that he is
preparing to plant.
They will revive the land
that has become infertile
due to industrial agriculture
and will allow for new herds
to graze.
(SINGING) You can find
beauty in the rain
and hear it like a laugh,
and hear it like a laugh.
On a larger scale,
introducing agroforestry
in France and Europe could
allow us to meet the goals
for reducing greenhouse gases.
But can we feed the planet
with such farms and their more
limited outputs?
Can we really do without
industrialization?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The idea that industrial
farming produces more quantity,
it's only through in
a very small cycle,
in a very small period.
If you look for a
bigger period, it's
food for today,
hunger for tomorrow.
>> We have to change things.
Why would you not change things?
The only reason not
to change things
is because you're the
person benefiting from them.
Who benefits?
The people who are
making the most money.
Farmers don't benefit.
The eaters don't benefit.
The processors don't benefit.
The big corporations who
provide the seed, who
provide the fertilizer, who
process the grain and so
on, and they are
vertically organized,
those are the people
who benefit from this.
And there's no reason for them
to change unless we give them
incentive to change.
So on a very small
level, you can give them
incentive to change
by saying, I'm not
going to eat that way every--
I'm not going to eat
that way anymore.
I'm going to eat
a different way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> While we wait for
public policy to change,
if it does one day, it's
up to citizens to act.
But how can we get access to
meat or fish whose production
hasn't damaged the environment
and is respectful of animals?
A solution is emerging.
Buying directly
from the provider.
Cutting out the middleman
helps to fight global warming
and gives us full knowledge of
where the produce comes from.
Pierre Hinard farms
cows organically.
He has chosen to
control production
from start to finish, from
the field to the plate.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Pierre Hinard refuses to sell
his product through the classic
industrial system
and large retailers.
He prepares his meat himself
in a small cutting plant.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> When we talk about making
more ethical decisions with
the meat that we eat, of course,
one possibility is choosing
meat from more sustainable
farms, smaller farms,
grass-fed beef, free-range
chicken, free-range pork.
But what's critical
to understand
is that in order for this to
be ethical in a long-term way,
we have to eat much,
much less meat.
And because these products
are more expensive,
it is certainly feasible to
envision a situation where
a consumer would say, OK, I'm
going to eat meat once a week
now instead of every
day, but I'm just
going to spend more for it.
>> There are ways of farming
animals while respecting
their well-being, the
planet, and our health.
But there is one thing
that we can't avoid.
In the end, to eat them,
we have to kill them.
Today, the most stressful
moment in a farm animal's life
is when they are crammed into
the truck's and transported
to the abattoir.
They often travel
hundreds of kilometers
before being killed in
huge slaughterhouses.
Can we kill the animals
without making them suffer?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Amelia Jaunon breeds 100%
organic calves in Bougon,
rejecting industrial methods.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> She accompanies the animals
herself when the moment comes.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Amelia Jaunon didn't choose
the abattoir on the basis
of cost effectiveness,
unlike the large industrial
establishments.
The pace is much slower, but
the methods are the same.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Around 30 cows are
killed here each day instead
of hundreds in
industrial abattoirs.
But these small
establishments are rare,
and they don't avoid having
to transport the animals.
However, there is
another alternative,
and it could easily be
used on a large scale.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The mobile slaughtery
is moving, some weeks,
800 kilometers.
We are going from one
farm to another every day.
Sometimes there are
small roads and we
have to go very, very slowly,
but we've managed so far.
>> With this system, the cows
don't go to the abattoir.
Instead, the abattoir
comes to the farm.
>> Once we come to the
farm, in the morning,
we start then the
slaughtering process.
Inside the slaughtery, it's
like an ordinary slaughtery
but in a minimized area,
and also the veterinary
is inside to inspect
everything so everything
is OK for food safety.
It's important that the
animals are at their farm
because it's their
usual environment.
They know everything about
the smell, the sounds.
All the other cows
individuals are there,
and also the farmer is there who
takes care of them every day,
and that's just normal.
It's better for the
animals because they
don't have to be loaded
onto a transport,
mixed with other animals
they have never met before.
And animals get very stressed
when they meet new individuals,
so they start to
fight with each other.
And when they are
in a new place,
their last 24 hours will
be a nightmare for them.
And I really wanted
to change that.
>> You seem to take care of
the welfare of the animals,
and at the same
time, at the end,
you kill them and
you bring them death.
How do you live with that?
>> Yeah.
Of course it's a difficult part.
But if you accept to
eat meat, then you
have to realize that we
are killing the animals.
Of course, I respect
the people who
don't eat meat because they
don't want to kill the animals.
But I think it's
OK if you really
care about how they are
bred when they are alive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you're going
to eat any meat,
you're killing some animals.
But there is a difference
between killing animals 1
or 10 or 100 even at a time
or in the course of the day
and killing thousands a minute,
which is how things work now.
There's a dehumanization
factor going on here.
It's different from how animals
have been treated and dealt
with by humans for the
first 200,000 years
of human's existence.
This is all new.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So should we
stop eating animals?
It's a choice we all have
to make for ourselves.
But meeting those who produce
our food has shown me it
is already possible to
do things differently.
Viable alternatives exist
and can feed us all.
It also shows that we can move
things along at our own level,
by eating less meat and
using the savings to buy
better meat that is produced
ethically and sustainably.
It's what we've decided
to do with our son.
The scandal of
industrial farming
is one that we
can all act on now
without waiting for
public decision-making.
Part of the solution,
right here in our hands.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]